---
title: (Week5) SVM
tags: Spring-ML1
---

머신러닝 수업 5주차

<!--more-->

---

## Support Vector Machine
### Linearly Not Separable

- The points can be linearly sepearted but there is a very narrow margin

- But possibly the large margin solution is better, even though one constraint is violated.

### Soft Margin

- We want to allow data points to stay inside the margin.

- How about change

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1, j=1,...,N$$

to this one:

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j, j=1,...,N$$

and $\xi_j \geq 0$

- If $\xi_j > 1$, then $x_j$ will be misclassified.

- We can consider this problem 

$$\text{minimize}_{w, w_0, \xi} {1\over 2}\|w\|^2_2$$

subject to 

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j, j=1,...,N$$

$$\xi_j \geq 0$$

- But we need to control $\xi$, for otherwise the solution will be $\xi=\inf$

- How about this: 

$$\text{minimize}_{w, w_0, \xi} {1\over2}\|w\|^2_2 + C \|\xi\|^2$$

subject to

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j$$

$$\xi_j \geq 0$$

- Control the energe of $\xi$.

### Role of $C$

- If $C$ is big, then we enforce $\xi$ to be small.

- If $C$ is small, then $\xi$ can be big.

### No Misclassification?

- You can have misclassification in soft SVM

- $\xi_j$ can be big for a few outliers 

$$\text{minimize}_{w, w_0, \xi} {1\over2}\|w\|^2_2 + C \|\xi\|^2$$

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j$$

$$\xi_j \geq 0$$

### L1-Regularization

- Instead of $l_1$ norm, you can also do

$$\text{minimize}_{w, w_0, \xi} {1\over2}\|w\|^2_2 + C \|\xi\|_1$$

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j$$

$$\xi_j \geq 0$$

- This enforces $\xi$ to be sparse.

- Only a few entries samples are allowed to live in the margin.

- The problem remains convex.

- So you can still use CVX to solve the problem.

### Connection with Perceptron Algorithm

- In soft-margin SVM, $\xi_j \geq 0$ and $y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1-\xi_j$ imply that

$$\xi_j \geq 0$$

$$\xi_j \geq 1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)$$

- We can combine them to get

$$\xi_j \geq \max\{0, 1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)\}$$

$$=[1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)]_{+}$$

- So if we use SVM with $l_1$ penalty, then

$$J(w, w_0, \xi)={1\over2}\|w\|^2_2+C\sum^N_{j=1}\xi_j$$

$$={1\over2}\|w\|^2_2+C\sum^N_{j=1}[1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)]_{+}$$

- This means that the training loss is

$$J(w, w_0)=\sum^N_{j=1}[1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)]_{+}+{\lambda\over2}\|w\|^2_2$$

if we define $\lambda=1/C$

- Now, you can make $\lambda \rightarrow 0$. This means $C\rightarrow \inf$

- Then, 

$$J(w, w_0)=\sum^N_{j=1}[1-y_j(w^\top w_j + w_0)]_{+}$$

$$\sum^N_{j=1}\max\{0, 1-y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0)\}$$

$$\sum^N_{j=1}\max\{0, 1-y_jg(x_j)\}$$

- SVM Loss

$$J(w, w_0)=\sum^N_{j=1}\max\{0, 1-y_jg(x_j)\}$$

- Perceptron Loss:

$$J(w, w_0)=\sum^N_{j=1}\max\{0, 1-y_jg(x_j)\} + {\lambda \over 2}\|w\|^2_2$$

- $\|w\|^2_2$ regularizes the solution.

### The Kernel trick

- A trick to turn linear classifier to nonlinear classifier

- Dual SVM

$$\text{maximize}_{\lambda \geq 0}-{1\over2}\sum^n_{i=1}\sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_i\lambda_jy_i y_j x^\top_i x_j + \sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_j$$

subject to $\sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_jy_j=0$

- Kernel Trick

$$\text{maximize}_{\lambda \geq 0}-{1\over2}\sum^n_{i=1}\sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_i\lambda_jy_i y_j \phi{(x}^\top_i) \phi(x_j) + \sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_j$$

subject to $\sum^n_{j=1}\lambda_jy_j=0$

- You have to do this in dual. Primal is hard. 

- Define

$$K(x_i, vx_j)=\phi(x_i)^\top \phi(x_j)$$

- The matrix $Q$ is 

$$Q=\begin{bmatrix}y_1y_1x^\top_1 x_1 & .... & y_1y_Nx^\top_1x_N \\ 
y_2y_1x^\top_2 x_1 & .... & y_2y_Nx^\top_2x_N \\
... & ... & ... \\ 
y_Ny_1x^\top_N x_1 & .... & y_Ny_Nx^\top_Nx_N \\
\end{bmatrix}$$

- By Kernel Trick

$$Q=\begin{bmatrix}y_1y_1K(x_1, x_1) & .... & y_1y_NK(x_1, x_N) \\ 
y_2y_1K(x_2, x_1) & .... & y_2y_NK(x_2, x_N) \\
... & ... & ... \\ 
y_Ny_1K(x_N, x_1) & .... & y_Ny_NK(x_N, x_N)\\
\end{bmatrix}$$

### Kernel

- The inner product $\phi(x_i)^\top \phi(x_j)$ called a kernel

$$K(x_i, x_j)=\phi(x_i)^\top \phi(x_j)$$

- Second-Order Polynomial kernel

$$K(u, v)=(u^\top v)^2$$

- Gaussian Radial Function (RBF) Kernel

$$K(u,v)=\exp\{-{\|u-v\|^2\over2\sigma^2}\}$$

### Radial Basis Function

Radial Basis Function takes the form of 

$$K(u,v)=\exp\{-\gamma\|u-v\|^2\}$$

- Typical $\gamma \in [0,1]$
- $\gamma$ too big: Over-fit

### Non-Linear Transform for RBF?

- Let us consider scalar $u \in \mathbb{R}$

$$K(u,v)=\exp\{-(u-v)^2\}$$
$$=\exp\{-u^2\}\exp\{2uv\}\exp\{-v^2\}$$
$$=\exp\{-u^2\}(\sum^{\infty}_{k=0}{2^k u^k v^k \over k!})\exp\{-v^2\}$$
$$=\exp\{-u^2\}(1, \sqrt{2^1\over1!}u, \sqrt{2^2\over2!}u^2, \sqrt{2^3\over3!}u^3, ..., )^\top \times (1, \sqrt{2^1\over1!}v, \sqrt{2^2\over2!}v^2, \sqrt{2^3\over3!}v^3, ..., )\exp\{-v^2\}$$

- So $\phi$ is

$$\phi(x)=\exp\{-x^2\}(1, \sqrt{2^1\over1!}x, \sqrt{2^2\over2!}x^2, \sqrt{2^3\over3!}x^3, ..., )$$

### So You Need

**Example**. Radial Basis Function

$$K(u,v)=\exp\{-\gamma\|u-v\|^2\}$$

The non-linear transform is 

$$\phi(x)=\exp\{-x^2\}(1, \sqrt{2^1\over1!}x, \sqrt{2^2\over2!}x^2, \sqrt{2^3\over3!}x^3, ..., )$$

- You need infinite dimensional non-linear transform!

- But to compute the kernel $K(u,v)$ you do not need $\phi$.

- Another Good thing about Dual SVM: You can do infinite dimensional non-linear transform.

- Cost of computing $K(u,v)$ is bottleneck by $\|u-v\|^2$

### Is RBF Always Better than Linear?

- Noisy dataset: Linear works well.
- RBF: Over fit.

### Testing with Kernels

- Recall: 

$$w^{*}=\sum^N_{n=1}\lambda^{*}_ny_nx_n$$

- The hypothesis function is

$$h(x)=\text{sign}(w^{* \top} x + w^{*}_0)$$

$$=\text{sign}((\sum^N_{n=1}\lambda^{*}_n y_n x_n)^\top x + w^{*}_0)$$

$$=\text{sign}(\sum^N_{n=1}\lambda^{*}_ny_nx_n^\top x + w^{*}_0)$$

- Now you can replace $x^\top_n x$ by $K(x_n, x)$