---
title: (Week3) SVM
tags: Spring-ML1
---

머신러닝 수업 3주차

<!--more-->

---

## Support Vector Machine
### Margin and Max-Margin Classifier

- **Margin**: Smallest gap between the two classes 
- **Max-Margin Classifier**: A classifier that maximizes the margin.
- **What do we need?**

1. How to measure the distance from a point to be a plane?
2. How to formulate a max margin problem?
3. How to solve the max margin problem?

### Recall: Linear Discriminant Function

- In high-dimension,

$$g(x)={\bf{w}}^\top x + {\bf{w}}_0$$

is a hyperplane. How to

- Separating Hyperplane: 

$$\mathcal{H}=\{x \mid g(x)=0 \}$$

$$=\{x \mid {\bf{w}}^{\top}x+{\bf{w}}_0=0\}$$

- $x\in\mathcal{H}$ means $x$ is on the decision boundary.

- ${\bf{w}}/\|{\bf{w}}\|_2$ is the normal vector of $\mathcal{H}$.

### Recall: Distance from $x_0$ to $g(x)=0$

- Pick a point $x_p$ on $\mathcal{H}$
- $x_p$ is the closest point to $x_0$.
- $x_0-x_p$ is the normal direction.
- So, for some scalar $\eta>0$,

$$x_0-x_p=\eta{w\over{\|w\|}_2}$$

- $x_p$ is on $\mathcal{H}$. So

$$g(x_p)={\bf{w}}^\top x_p + {\bf{w}}_0=0$$

Therefore, we can show that

$$g(x_0)={\bf{w}}^\top x_0+{\bf{w}}_0$$

$${\bf{w}}^\top(x_p+\eta{w\over\|w\|_2})+{\bf{w}_0}$$


$$=g(x_p)+\eta\| {\bf{w}}\|_2=\eta\|\bf{w}\|_2$$

- So distance is 

$$\eta={g(x_0) \over {\|w\|_2}}$$

**Conclusion:**

distance, normal vector

$$x_p=x_0-{g(x_0)\over\|w\|_2}\cdot{w\over\|w\|_2}$$

### Unsigned Distance

- We define the distance between a data point $x_j$ and a separating hyperplane as 

$$d(x_j, \mathcal{H})={\mid g(x_j) \mid \over\|{\bf{w}}\|_2}={\mid {\bf{w}}^\top x_j+{\bf{w}}_0\mid \over\|{\bf{w}}\|_2}$$

- $d(x_j, \mathcal{H})$ is called unsigned distance.

### Margin

- Among all the unsgined distances, pick the smallest one.

- Margin: $\gamma$ such that 

$$\gamma=\text{min}_{j=1,...,N}d(x_j, \mathcal{H})$$

- Without loss of generality, assume $x_N$ is the closest point.

### More about Margin

- Margin: $\gamma$ such that

$$\gamma=\min_{j=1,...,N}d(x_j, \mathcal{H})$$

- $\gamma$ depends on $(w, w_0)$.

- $\gamma$ always exist because training set is finite.

- $\gamma \geq 0$, and is zero when $x_N$ is on the boundary.

### Signed Distance

- $d(x_j, \mathcal{H})$ is unsigned

- So $\gamma$ does not tell whether a point $x_j$ is correctly classified or not

- Assume that the labels are defined as $y_j \in \{-1, +1 \}$
 
- Then define a **signed distance**

 $$d_{signed}(x_j, \mathcal{H})=y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0 \over w_2})$$

 $\geq0$, correctly classify $x_j$.

 $<0$, incorrectly classify $x_j$.

 - Recall perceptron loss: 

 $$\mathcal{L}(x_j)=\max \{-y_j(w^\top x_j+w_0), 0 \}$$

 ### Unsigned VS Signed Distance

 - Unsigned distance: Just the distance
 - Signed distance: Distance plus whether on the correct side

 ### Max-Margin Objective

 - Assumptions: Linearly separable
 - This means

 $$y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0 \over \|w\|_2}) \geq \gamma, j=1,...,N $$

 - All training samples are correctly classified.

 - All training samples are at lest $\gamma$ from the boundary.

 - So the max-margin classifier is

 $$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} \gamma$$

 subject to $y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0\over \|w\|_2}) \geq \gamma, j=1,..,N$

 ### Unfortunately...

- If I can solve the optimization problem

 $$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} \gamma$$

 subject to 
 
 $$y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0\over \|w\|_2}) \geq \gamma, j=1,..,N$$

 Then I can obtain a good SVM.

 - But solving the optimization is not easy!

 - $\gamma$ depends on $(w, w_0)$. If you change $(w, w_0)$, you also change $\gamma$.

- There is a term $1/\|w\|_2$. Nonlinear

### Trick 1: Scaling

- The optmization is 

 $$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} \gamma$$

 subject to 
 
 $$y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0\over \|w\|_2}) \geq \gamma, j=1,..,N$$

- Let $x_N$ be the point closest to the boundary

- Define the smallest unsigned distance

$$\tilde{\gamma}=\mid w^\top x_n+w_0\mid$$

- Then, we can show that

$$\gamma={w^\top x_n + w_0 \over \|w\|_2}={\tilde{\gamma}\over\|w\|_2}$$

- So we can turn this optimization

 $$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} \gamma$$

 subject to 
 
 $$y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0\over \|w\|_2}) \geq \gamma, j=1,..,N$$

- into this optimization

 $$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} {\tilde{\gamma}\over \|w\|_2}$$

 subject to 

 $$y_j({w^\top x_j + w_0 \over \|w\|_2}) \geq {\tilde{\gamma} \over \|w\|_2}$$

- $1/\|w\|_2$ goes to objective function!

### Eliminate $\tilde{\gamma}$

- How about we turn this optimization

$$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0}{\tilde{\gamma} \over \|w\|_2 }$$

subject to $y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq \tilde{\gamma}$, $j=1,...,N$

- Into this optimization?

$$\text{maximize}_{w / \tilde{\gamma}, w_0 / \tilde{\gamma}}{1 \over \|w / \tilde{\gamma} \|_2 }$$

subject to 

$$y_j({w \over \tilde{\gamma}}^\top x_j + {w_0 \over \tilde{\gamma}}) \geq 1, j=1,...,N$$

- You can refine the variables $w \leftarrow {w \over \tilde{\gamma}}$ and $w_0 \leftarrow {w_0 \over \tilde{\gamma}}$
 
- This gives you

$$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} {1 \over \|w\|_2}$$

subject to $y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1$, $j=1, ..., N$

- So $\tilde{\gamma}$ is eliminated!

- Geometrically: A scaling.

### Trick 2. Max to Min 

- You want to solve

$$\text{maximize}_{w, w_0} {1 \over \|w\|_2}$$

subject to 

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1, j=1, ..., N$$

- How about

$$\text{minimize}_{w, w_0} {1 \over 2} \|w\|^2$$

subject to 

$$y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1, j=1, ..., N$$

- This is a **quadratic minimization** with **linear constraint**.

- Convex

- Solution is called a **support vector machine**.

### Hand Crafted Example

- You have four data points and

$$x_1=\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} x_2=\begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix} x_3=\begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} x_4=\begin{bmatrix} 3 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$$

- Labels are

$$y_1=-1, y_2=-1,y_3=+1,y_4=+1$$

- Weight vector $w=(w_1, w_2)$ and off-set $w_0$.

- The constraints are $y_j(w^\top x_j + w_0) \geq 1$:

(1) $-w_0 \geq 1$

(2) $-(2w_1+2w_2+w_0) \geq 1$

(3) $2w_1+w_0 \geq 1$

(4) $3w_1+w_0 \geq 1$

- Combine (1) and (3): $w_1 \geq 1$
- Combine (2) and (3): $w_2 \leq -1$
- Combine (1) and (3): $w_1 \geq 1$
- Combine (2) and (3): $w_2 \leq -1$

- Objective function is ${1\over2}\|w\|^2$
- Can show that 

$${1 \over 2} \|w\|^2={1\over 2}(w^2_1+w^2_2) \geq 1$$

- Equality holds when

$$w^*_1=1, w^*_2=-1$$

- So $(w^*_1, w^*_2)=(1,-1)$ is a minimizer of the objective.

- Can further show that $w^*_0=-1$

- All constraints are satisfied at $(w^*_1, w^*_2, w^*_0)=(1, -1, -1)$

- Separating hyperplane:

$$h(x)=\text{sign}(x_1-x_2-1)$$

- Margin

$${1\over\|w^*\|_2}={1\over\sqrt{2}}$$

- Boxed data points: Meet the constraints (i), (ii) and(iii) with equality.

- These are the support vectors.




